Greetings and a hearty welcome
to JW Broadcasting®.
Today, I’m joined by my cohost and friend,
Don Gordon.
Don, what do we have in store
for this month’s program?
We all want to look our best.
But is it possible
to care too much about our appearance?
Tony and Samantha
will tell us what they learned.
Many years ago,
Janice found the comfort and courage
she needed to cope
with discouraging circumstances.
We’ll catch up with her
in the next episode of the series
Where Are They Now?
And finally, we’ll debut a new series
that will bring Bible characters to life.
Well, let’s get started.
This is the September 2023 edition
of JW Broadcasting.
This month,
I’d like to talk to you on the subject
“Jehovah Loves You
Despite Appearances or Imperfections.”
You’ll likely notice
there are two areas we’ll discuss:
our appearance and our imperfections.
Why address these two aspects?
It’s because there’s a percentage
of Jehovah’s faithful servants
that wonder if Jehovah can really love them
because of one of those two reasons
or both.
Let’s take appearances first.
When you’ve gotten all cleaned up
and are fully dressed each day
and you glance in a full-length mirror,
are you pleased with the way you look?
Would you like to change a few things,
but you can’t?
Some of us tend to compare ourselves
to other imperfect humans
and adopt the thinking of the masses.
Movies and television
have blinded many to reality,
making them feel
that the beauty of the human body
must look like the handsome
and beautiful movie stars
and famed athletes.
However, comparing ourselves to them
can often be very disappointing,
time consuming, and even expensive
if you go to great lengths
to try to look more like another person.
It’s true that some have been born
with a physical impairment or disability.
This may be obvious to others,
and some unkind people
might have made comments
or teased the person.
That can make the person feel self-conscious
or even create a feeling of low self-esteem.
This can become so ingrained
in one’s thinking
that he might begin to feel
no one could love him.
And at times, that kind of erroneous thinking
can even affect a person’s view
of Jehovah’s love.
However, please be assured
that Jehovah loves us
despite our physical appearance.
It’s been said, “Beauty is only skin-deep.”
It fades with time.
Just look at a picture of yourself
when you were, let’s say, 17,
and then look at one
when you are in your 80’s.
You say, “That’s not me.”
Oh, yes, it is!
Humans are sometimes enamored
by appearances.
We don’t mean to do this,
but we may get caught up in this trap.
A faithful prophet of Jehovah
fell into this type of reasoning.
Do you remember when Jehovah told Samuel
to anoint the next king of Israel?
At 1 Samuel 16:3,
Jehovah told Samuel to go
to Jesse in Bethlehem,
and there He said:
“You must anoint for me
the one whom I designate to you.”
Do you have that in your mind?
‘Samuel, you must anoint
the one whom I designate to you.’
What happened?
Samuel defaulted
to the way humans sometimes view others,
or appearances.
Let’s read what happened.
It’s recorded at 1 Samuel 16:6.
It reads:
“As they came in and he saw Eliab,
“he said: ‘Surely here before Jehovah
stands his anointed one.’”
Samuel didn’t really know Eliab.
But he was impressed with his appearance.
He was tall
and likely a good-looking man.
Read along with me on the screen verse 7.
Jehovah’s way of assessing our worth
before him is very different.
Verse 7 says:
“But Jehovah said to Samuel:
“‘Do not pay attention
to his appearance
“‘and how tall he is,
“‘for I have rejected him.
“‘[now note this]
“‘For the way man sees
“‘is not the way God sees,
“‘because mere man sees
what appears to the eyes,
but Jehovah sees into the heart.’”
Jehovah’s view of beauty
is different from ours.
Close your literal eyes for a minute,
and see with your mind’s eye
a beautiful bird.
Now open your eyes.
Which bird did you see?
Was it an indigo bunting,
a cardinal, or a Baltimore oriole?
Those are beautiful birds.
But does Jehovah prefer one bird over another
just because of its beauty or appearance?
What bird did Jesus choose
in teaching his disciples
a valuable lesson about Jehovah?
He used a sparrow
—a plain, somewhat drab-looking little bird
of small monetary value.
Follow along on-screen as I read
Matthew 10:29-31:
“Two sparrows sell for a coin of small value,
do they not?
“Yet not one of them will fall to the ground
“without your Father’s knowledge.
“But even the hairs of your head
are all numbered.
“So have no fear;
you are worth more than many sparrows.”
Jesus represented Jehovah’s view
of all those
who have dedicated themselves to him
and are trying to remain faithful.
Think about it.
Jehovah likely notices
when an indigo bunting,
a cardinal, or a Baltimore oriole
falls to the ground.
But Jesus made a significant point
when he chose to use
a sparrow in his illustration.
Jehovah is not impressed
with the beauty of one’s physical appearance.
He loves us as much as he loves
any of his faithful servants
despite our appearance.
In fact, Jesus went a step further and said:
“You are worth more than many sparrows.”
You’re not just a bird.
You are a precious human
who has come to know and love Jehovah.
He loves you, not because of your appearance
—being handsome, drab-looking,
short, heavy,
skinny, bald,
beautiful, less-than-beautiful,
having warts or a limp or missing limbs,
being cross-eyed
or having a different skin color
or shape of your eyes.
No, Jehovah loves you
because of who you are at heart.
Do you remember what Jehovah told Samuel?
“Man sees what appears to the eyes,
but Jehovah sees into the heart.”
Yes, Jehovah looks at you and sees
“the secret person of the heart”
that came to love your God,
the Universal Sovereign.
You cannot take that aspect away
from the attention of Jehovah.
If you love him like Jesus indicates you can,
he loves you
despite any external appearances.
You’ll likely remember what Jesus said
at Mark 12:30:
“You must love Jehovah your God
“with your whole heart
“and with your whole soul
“and with your whole mind
and with your whole strength.”
That’s it!
Jesus did not add
“and your good looks.”
No, your appearance is not a factor
in your love for Jehovah or his love for you.
Maybe you say: “I’m crippled in both feet.
“I have trouble walking.
I feel dead inside.”
You’re not the first servant of Jehovah
to feel that way.
Mephibosheth evidently felt that way.
He too was crippled in both feet.
King David had just honored him
by promising to give him property
and the privilege
of eating his meals with the king.
Notice how Mephibosheth
felt about himself
at 2 Samuel 9:8:
“What is your servant,
that you have turned your attention
to a dead dog like me?”
He did not have a high opinion of himself.
It sounds like low self-esteem, doesn’t it?
If you have a physical impairment
or a defect,
you’re not dead
but very much alive in Jehovah’s eyes.
Listen to what Jehovah tells you
at Malachi 4:2:
“But on you who honor my name,
“the sun of righteousness will shine,
“with healing in its rays;
and you will skip about
like fattened calves.”
Do what you can
with what you have to work with
knowing Jehovah loves you
and ultimately will correct
any physical problem.
You’ll then be able to live for all eternity
without any concerns about your appearance.
Now let’s talk about Jehovah’s love for us
despite our imperfections.
If you’re a human, you’re imperfect.
Sorry, that’s just the way it is.
Adam passed imperfection on to all of us.
Being imperfect, we will all make mistakes.
We all do without exception.
You’ll be embarrassed
at your imperfect reaction at times.
But it happens.
Jehovah knows our condition.
He knows what Adam handed down to us.
Yet, he still loves us despite imperfection.
It really is not our fault.
How can Jehovah still love us
when we make mistakes,
use poor judgment on occasion,
and at times fall into serious sin
(though we’re sorry and repentant afterward)?
It’s on the basis of Jesus’ ransom sacrifice.
Let’s read Mark 10:45 from the screen:
“For even the Son of man came,
“not to be ministered to,
“but to minister and to give his life
as a ransom in exchange for many.”
Jesus absorbs our mistakes.
This is possible
because he gave his perfect human life for us
in exchange for what Adam lost
and passed on to us.
And look with me at 1 Corinthians 15:22:
“For just as in Adam all are dying,
so also in the Christ
all will be made alive.”
That’s beautiful.
Jehovah does not hold
our imperfections against us.
As long as we acknowledge our imperfections
and feel remorse and are repentant,
he loves us despite the issue.
Revelation 21:1-5
says that in time humans will experience
the removal of tears,
mourning, outcry,
pain, and even death.
All of these painful situations
are based on the sin of Adam.
They will then be gone.
For obedient humans,
this means a return
to the perfect state enjoyed by man
at the beginning of human history
in the garden of Eden.
So humans will be able to enjoy
not only perfection as to faith and love
but perfection as to sinlessness.
At that time, they’ll measure up
fully and faultlessly
to God’s righteous standards for humans.
Can you imagine that glorious time?
Of course, perfection at that time
does not mean an end to variety,
as some persons often assume.
The animal kingdom,
which is the product
of Jehovah’s perfect activity,
contains enormous variety.
Our perfect earth
is likewise filled with variety,
change, and contrast.
It allows for the simple and the complex,
the plain and the fancy,
the sour and the sweet,
the rough and the smooth,
the meadows and the woods,
the mountains and the valleys.
It embraces the stimulating freshness
of early spring,
the warmth of summer,
the loveliness of autumn colors,
and the pure beauty
of freshly fallen snow.
Perfect humans will not be stereotypes
with identical personalities,
talents, and abilities.
But the beauty is that
with all of the variety of appearances,
talents, and personalities,
imperfection will be no more.
Please be assured that,
as we’ve considered from the Scriptures,
Jehovah loves each one of us
despite our appearances or imperfections.
May we all fully love
and adore Jehovah
and his Son, Christ Jesus, in return!
Thank you, Brother Herd,
for those encouraging reminders.
We know our young people want to look good,
but how do you avoid becoming obsessed
with how you look?
That’s the topic of the next episode
of the series My Teen Life.
Oh, most definitely I felt awkward.
I didn’t wear my clothes a certain way,
or I didn’t have my hair kept a certain way.
I didn’t wear the latest shoes.
It can be really easy to get caught up
on social media,
trying to see what the new trends are
and trying to see how others look.
‘Should I look like that?
Why don’t I look like that?
What can I do to look like that?’
And I paid such a high price
for the body I was going after.
I was going
after unrealistic beauty standards.
It lead me to being diagnosed
with an eating disorder.
My focusing on my appearance too much
affected me spiritually.
Even though I was in service,
even though I was at a meeting,
even though I was present for family worship
—I wasn’t focused.
I was thinking more
of what I’m going to wear tomorrow.
My parents were a great help.
They took time
to actually listen to my feelings
on what I was going through.
It was not necessarily a formal setting.
It was actually in informal settings
—where we could be in the car
and we were just talking
or we were sitting on the couch
and watching TV—
and my dad would just talk to me
and kind of see how I was doing,
how my day went.
My father, he kind of sat me down,
and he shared
two really important scriptures with me:
First Peter 3:3, 4, where it says:
“Do not let your adornment be external.”
You don’t want to focus too much
on how you look,
on your outer appearance,
and the reason being found at Proverbs 31:30,
where it says: “Beauty may be fleeting.”
So even though we may put so much effort
into how we look,
on our outer appearance,
eventually that’s going to go away.
Something that has really helped me is
giving myself time in the day
to get off of social media
—getting off the Internet
and giving time (dedicating time) to Jehovah.
I unfollowed models and influencers
who made me feel more insecure about myself,
and I would study
Bible characters of the past,
such as Abigail,
Sarah,
Ruth.
Letting myself be influenced by them
was a game changer for me.
What made them more beautiful
in the eyes of Jehovah
were their qualities,
how they treated others, their personality,
how they served Jehovah with loyalty.
As I examined those scriptures,
I feel like something clicked in my head.
Being attractive physically
—it just didn’t really make
much of a difference to me anymore.
By making sure I prayed
before my day started,
I learned to really let Jehovah in
and make my prayers meaningful.
There were a few elders—
Some even became almost as close
as best friends to me.
The elders really helped me
when it came to how I could take
more attention off of myself
and how I could focus on helping others.
Knowing that I’m making Jehovah happy
by helping others get to know him
and making disciples
is what makes me happy now.
And as a pioneer,
I finally was able to attend
my first pioneer school
in March of 2021,
which was an amazing blessing from Jehovah.
I work on being more open with people,
on being more present,
on being more available.
And trust me, it’s paid off for me,
because eventually I received
many more privileges in the congregation.
I was able to serve in different capacities
in Jehovah’s organization.
And above all, I was more happy.
Thank you, Tony and Samantha,
for those candid experiences.
Cultivating kindness and goodness
will make us happy
and draw us closer to our friends
and closer to Jehovah.
In a recent Morning Worship program,
Brother William Turner explains
that these inner qualities
don’t just make us beautiful to Jehovah
but they also make us valuable to him.
What do you think makes us valuable
to Jehovah?
Is it our natural ability?
our many years of faithful service?
Is it our Bethel assignment?
Well, turn with me in your Bibles
to 1 Peter chapter 3,
and we’ll let Jehovah answer this for us
through his Word.
First Peter 3 and we’ll read verse 4:
“But let it be the secret person of the heart
“in the incorruptible adornment
of the quiet and mild spirit,
which is of great value in the eyes of God.”
Now, of course,
we know in the full context
of the opening verses
here in 1 Peter chapter 3,
Peter is referring to Christian women.
But if we isolate this phrase in verse 4,
“the secret person of the heart,”
that applies to all of us,
brothers and sisters,
because it’s referring to who we are
on the inside
—our thoughts, our beliefs, our emotions.
That’s why David prayed at Psalm 51:10
for Jehovah to create within him
“a pure heart,”
because that’s what Jehovah sees
and examines,
that is what is valuable to him,
and that’s what all of us are striving to do
—to serve him in that way.
And the beautiful thing
is that when Jehovah sees
that we’re trying to serve him this way,
not only does that make us valuable to him
but he will also give us whatever we need
in whatever assignment we happen to have.
Now, just to prove this,
let’s look at three different occasions
in various stages of David’s life,
all related to his assignment in warfare.
We’ll start with the account
in 1 Samuel chapter 17.
When it was determined
that David was going to fight Goliath,
you’ll recall that he was clothed
with Saul’s armor.
Now, likely that was quite the privilege
—to fight with the king’s armor.
But notice the middle of verse 39.
After David tries it on,
look at what happens:
“David said to Saul:
“‘I am unable to go in these things,
“for I am not used to them.’
So David took them off.”
So it was valuable armor,
but David wasn’t equipped to use it.
It didn’t fit him or his circumstances
at the time.
But you notice
David didn’t let that stop him.
Instead, he used what worked for him.
He looked for five smooth stones,
and with Jehovah’s help,
that was more than enough
for him to carry out his assignment.
Perhaps we know of brothers and sisters,
maybe here at Bethel or in the field,
who at one time may have been hesitant
to have a Bible study
or to engage
in some other aspect of the ministry,
maybe because they felt they didn’t have
the skill of a seasoned pioneer.
And yet they excelled,
and Jehovah blessed their efforts.
You see, they didn’t let that stop them.
They just worked with what they had
—their love for Jehovah, their sincerity—
and Jehovah blessed them.
The point is, because of our circumstances
we may not all have
the experience, the training
—the figurative king’s armor, so to speak—
for a particular assignment,
but we still should not let that stop us
in our efforts to serve Jehovah.
We find what works for us.
And it may be that for a time
we may feel that we’re just working
with a couple of figurative smooth stones.
But Jehovah says that is more than enough
for us to carry out our assignment.
Well, let’s consider the second occasion.
Sometime later, now David is trained,
he’s skilled, and he’s quite the warrior.
And in 1 Samuel 18:4,
he gets another privilege.
This time it’s to use
the armor of Saul’s son, Jonathan.
And he’s successful.
He wins many battles.
To the point where, in verse 7,
the women are celebrating:
“Saul has struck down his thousands,
and David his tens of thousands.”
Well, what makes David so successful?
One Watchtower  noted
that David’s “fighting
was a matter of courage”
because he “repeatedly . . .
inquired of Jehovah
“as to his moving into battle,
“showing that he was being guided
by [Jehovah]
and not merely love of conquest.”
What can we take away from this?
Even if we’re privileged
to do many things in the organization,
we should never let our intellect,
our privilege, our position,
our natural abilities stop us
from seeking Jehovah’s direction first.
That can help us to maintain humility
—to keep us valuable to Jehovah.
I thought it was interesting
that The Watchtower  also mentioned
one of the reasons
that the women were able to sing
and celebrate David
was because of how David
inspired his men in battle.
So, clearly, David must have worked well
along with others.
He encouraged his men.
He motivated them.
He brought out the best in them.
And together,
they were able to have many victories
in behalf of Jehovah.
Well, isn’t that a nice reminder
for family heads, congregation elders,
our overseers and crew leaders
here at Bethel?
When we maintain the right disposition,
Jehovah can use us to inspire
—to motivate—
and to encourage
those whom we work with.
And then,
together we can accomplish much
to Jehovah’s praise.
One final occasion,
this time in 2 Samuel.
At this point, David is now older.
He’s won many battles.
But in yet another war with the Philistines,
notice what happens to him.
Notice 2 Samuel chapter 21.
In 2 Samuel 21, we’ll read verse 15.
It says: “Once again there was war
between the Philistines and Israel.
“So David and his servants went down
and fought the Philistines,
but David became exhausted.”
This time, David, even with his armor,
was in a situation
that almost got him killed.
Now, the courage was still there,
but his strength wasn’t.
He was exhausted.
So in verse 17,
how grateful he must have been
that men like Abishai
had kept an eye on him
and quickly came to his aid.
If you go back a couple of chapters
to chapter 18,
in verses 3 and 4,
this matter of David going out to fight
had come up before.
But you notice when you look at those verses,
it was not as if the men were stopping David
from doing anything.
They just wanted him to do work
that fit his circumstances.
And in verse 4,
we see the wisdom of David
in agreeing to do so.
Doesn’t this make us think
of our dear, faithful older ones
in the family?
We love all of you so dearly.
We hold you in high esteem,
and we know that Jehovah treasures
and values you as well
because he sees your heart.
And he knows that your strength
may not be as it once was,
but your faith, your love,
your courage, your zeal
—it’s all there,
and it’s as strong as ever.
So we’re so appreciative
of our brotherhood and this Bethel family,
where we have members like Abishai
and where it’s such a privilege
for them and us
to come to your aid
and support you when we can.
And Jehovah certainly appreciates
your willingness to do
whatever work you’re able to do
as it fits your circumstances.
So, what a reminder it is to know
that it’s not our strength or natural ability
that draws us closer to Jehovah.
It’s that “secret person of the heart”
—a pure heart—
that makes us valuable to God.
And when we serve him in that way,
he will give us whatever we need,
regardless of our situation,
or circumstances,
to always serve him
in a way that he approves.
What Brother Turner said is true.
Jehovah values us
and will give us what we need
to fulfill our commission to preach,
even if we feel
we lack strength or natural abilities.
Our music video this month is entitled
He Knows Us.
It reassures us
that when we are discouraged
or tired or afraid,
Jehovah knows how we feel.
When we were woven
in the depths of the earth,
Before we even came
into this world,
Jehovah saw
right from the start
Deep down
inside our beating heart.
Just stop and think
what that means.
He knows you; he knows me—
What we feel, what we see,
When we try hard to give our best,
The joys we feel, and our regrets.
He knows you; he knows me—
What we need, what we plead.
When we can’t find the words to say,
we’re not alone.
He knows.
Like a father
wants his child to succeed,
That’s how he feels
about you and me.
He sifts through us
and sees where we shine
And who we can be
in Paradise.
So always know
that he cares.
He knows you; he knows me—
What we feel, what we see,
When we try hard to give our best,
The joys we feel, and our regrets.
He knows you; he knows me—
What we need, what we plead.
When we can’t find the words to say,
we’re not alone.
He knows.
So we must look up above
and never forget about his love and pray—
and pray.
Tell him when life is hard
and fear’s got a grip on our heart.
Remember, we’re okay;
we don’t have to be afraid.
He knows you; he knows me—
What we feel, what we see,
When we try hard to give our best,
The joys we feel, and our regrets.
He knows you; he knows me—
What we need, what we plead.
When we can’t find the words to say,
we’re not alone.
He knows you; he knows me—
What we feel, what we see,
When we try hard to give our best,
The joys we feel, and our regrets.
He knows you; he knows me—
What we need, what we plead.
When we can’t find the words to say,
we’re not alone.
He knows.
Beautiful!
Did you hear the line,
“He knows you; he knows me—
What we need, what we plead”?
It’s so catchy and uplifting.
I think we’ll all be singing He Knows Us
for days to come.
Discouragement can be a powerful enemy.
In the April 22, 2001, issue of Awake!,
Janice Adams told how Jehovah
helped her overcome discouragement
and maintain a positive attitude
despite many trials.
Let’s find out how she’s doing now.
I was born deaf,
and I attended a school for the deaf.
Later, I attended college.
While I was there,
I noticed that my vision was deteriorating,
and I couldn’t understand why.
I was informed that I was going blind.
I was stunned.
I was also given an article,
and in the article,
I noticed one sentence that said:
“[Deaf-blind people] are the loneliest people
in the world.”
I was devastated.
Being both deaf and blind is challenging.
I’ve had to learn how to live independently.
But the most important thing
that I’ve learned
is learning about Jehovah—the true God.
Some people might imagine
that a deaf-blind person would be too limited
to serve Jehovah fully.
That’s far from the truth.
Let me give you some examples of my service.
Some of the ways
that I support the congregation
are by attending meetings
and being regular in service.
Sometimes I can be helpful
in training others how
to be more effective teachers.
I often join others on their Bible studies.
I’ve been able to pioneer for many years,
and this is something that I really enjoy.
Over the years,
my husband and I have had the opportunity
to preach in many countries.
In some of the countries,
the deaf ministry was just getting started.
For example,
we went to Honduras in Central America.
They only had two small groups.
We first went for a few months,
then returned and stayed for a year.
What a great experience to participate
and see the growth in the field!
Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic,
I was accustomed
to being a self-sufficient person.
For example, I could go out on my own
with my guide dog.
We could go to the Kingdom Hall
to meet the brothers and sisters.
But then COVID-19 hit, and I was
stuck at home—isolated.
While it’s true that we still had meetings
and service arrangements on Zoom,
it wasn’t easy.
The only person who could interpret for me
was my husband, no one else.
It was tough.
He was exhausted.
We both were.
It was something we had to endure.
In time, when it became safe enough,
a few of the brothers and sisters volunteered
to come and help interpret.
That really built me up.
I could finally have direct contact
with my friends.
I was thrilled.
I also receive a lot of support
from the congregation.
There are many willing volunteers
to tactile interpret for me at the meetings.
That gives me joy.
I always know
that if I have a problem, I can share
my thoughts and feelings with others.
They will listen and support me.
No matter what the future brings,
I remember the scripture at Isaiah 41:10.
It says:
“Do not be afraid, for I am with you.”
I know that Jehovah encourages me.
He will help me.
I don’t have to worry.
While it’s true
that I’m deaf and blind, I’m not
one of “the loneliest people in the world.”
I’m a happy person
because I have many friends,
I have the joy of helping others
to learn about God,
and I have the best Friend ever
—Jehovah.
Our faith grows strong
when we imitate the faith
of fellow Christians like Janice
and those in the Bible who loved Jehovah.
When we read God’s Word,
we want to visualize
what life was like
for these people of faith.
We want to see what they saw,
hear what they heard,
and feel what they felt.
We must immerse ourselves in their stories.
We’re happy to debut a new series
that we hope will help you do just that.
Please enjoy the first episode of the series
Imitate Their Faith.
Abram, dinner is almost ready.
Please tell Shem.
We’ll be right there, Mom.
Well, Abram, before we go in,
let me tell you the rest.
I was just a young man back then.
After Jehovah gave my father
the command to build the ark,
it took decades to complete.
Then we had to gather food and all the animals.
We had no idea how long we would be inside.
But when Jehovah closed the ark’s door,
we were ready.
So were you scared?
Abram, I know you’re just a boy,
but things have happened to you
that have scared you, right?
Uh-huh.
I was older than you, but I was still scared.
When we were building the ark,
people thought we were crazy.
And then, just like Jehovah said it would,
it happened.
Only eight were saved
—my parents, my brothers, and our wives.
We were living proof that Jehovah’s word never fails.
Jehovah promised my father
that He would never again destroy all life
with a global Flood.
I want you to know I was scared,
but I know to trust Jehovah.
When Jehovah promises something
that we’ve never seen,
it takes a special quality to believe it.
Do you know what that quality is?
Faith.
Abram and Sarai lived in Ur,
a city full of people who worshipped pagan gods.
But like Noah and Shem,
Abram and Sarai worshipped Jehovah.
Abram.
Abram, go out from your land
and from your relatives
and come into the land that I will show you.
Where will we live?
We’ll be so far away from our family.
I have every confidence
that if we do what Jehovah asks,
things will turn out fine.
Well,
wherever it is, I will be by your side.
There is nothing I wouldn’t sacrifice for Jehovah.
I know. I know.
Abram and Sarai left Ur.
They lived in Haran for some time,
but Jehovah told Abram to keep moving.
Living in tents was not easy,
but the caravan gradually settled
into a routine of travel.
Abram’s nephew Lot was like a brother to him.
But as their flocks grew large,
tension grew between their groups.
Please, there should be
no quarreling between me and you,
for we are brothers.
Is not the whole land available to you?
Please, separate from me.
If you go to the left,
then I will go to the right.
Though it must have hurt their hearts,
they agreed to part ways.
Lot moved east to the district of the Jordan
where the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah
were located.
After Lot had gone,
Jehovah made a promise about Abram’s future.
Raise your eyes, please,
and look from the place where you are,
to the north and south,
east and west,
because all the land that you see,
I will give to you and your offspring
as a lasting possession.
And I will make your offspring
like the dust particles of the earth.
Abram.
Do not fear, Abram.
I am a shield for you.
Your reward will be very great.
Sovereign Lord Jehovah,
what will you give me,
seeing that I continue childless?
Go outside.
Look up, please,
to the heavens and count the stars,
if you are able to do so.
So your offspring will become.
Later, Jehovah changed Abram’s name
to Abraham,
which means “Father of a Multitude.”
He also changed Sarai’s name to Sarah,
which means “Princess.”
Every day, these new names
would remind them of Jehovah’s promise.
And Jehovah didn’t stop there.
He sent three angels to reassure Abraham
with even more good news.
Within the year, he and Sarah would have a son.
But they also brought other news.
Through one of the angels, Jehovah said:
The outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah
is indeed great,
and their sin is very heavy.
Will you really sweep away the righteous with the wicked?
Suppose there are 50 righteous men within the city.
Will you, then, sweep them away
and not pardon the place for the sake
of the 50 righteous who are inside it?
It’s unthinkable of you.
Will the Judge of all the earth not do what is right?
If I find in Sodom 50 righteous men in the city,
I will pardon the whole place for their sake.
Please, here I presume to speak to Jehovah,
whereas I am dust and ashes.
Suppose the 50 righteous should lack five.
Because of the five will you destroy the whole city?
Abraham knew that the Judge of all the earth
always does what is right.
But knowing and trusting
are two different things.
I will not destroy it for the sake of the 20.
Jehovah, please, do not become hot with anger,
but let me speak just once more:
Suppose only ten are found there.
I will not destroy it for the sake of the ten.
I have seen in my life that everything
that Jehovah promises always comes true.
Throughout your life have full confidence
that Jehovah will always do what is right.
Do you want to see Part 2
of the story of Abraham?
Me too!
But we have to wait till next month,
so be sure to tune in.
Imitate Their Faith
has been a beloved series
in the Watchtower  magazine
since 2008.
And more recently,
it’s been online at jw.org.
Note this excerpt
from the introduction to the printed edition:
“Are they that real to you?
“Imagine what it would be like
to walk and talk with them,
“to spend time getting to know
“such men and women
as Noah, Abraham, Ruth,
“Elijah, and Esther.
“Think of the influence
they might have on your life
“—the precious words of advice
and encouragement
they might offer!”
It’s our earnest prayer
that you’ll use this new series
to build a faith that’s equal
to any test that comes your way.
We’ve enjoyed a delightful program.
We learned that Jehovah’s love
is not based on appearance or imperfection.
When we serve him as best we can,
we are beautiful in his eyes.
Our My Teen Life  segment reminded us
that striving
for the world’s beauty standards
can rob us of our self-esteem,
but building
the inner qualities Jehovah values
can make us truly happy.
And our music video reassured us
that through hard times and hard feelings,
Jehovah understands us
and knows what we need.
Thank you, Brother Herd,
and please thank the Governing Body
for providing
the new Imitate Their Faith  series.
Our video postcard this month
comes from a land
of sweeping vistas and dramatic scenery
—Japan.
On Japan’s largest island of Honshu,
we find the Tohoku region,
renowned for its hot springs,
cold and snowy winters,
delicious rice, and fresh seafood.
Facing the Pacific Ocean
is the stunning Sanriku Coast,
with over 250 kilometers (155 mi)
of zigzagging granite cliffs
—some rising 200 meters (656 ft)
out of the sea.
Tourists can ride the Sanriku Railway
along the coast
to see the spectacular views.
Those who want to stretch their legs
and appreciate the natural splendor on foot
can walk the more than 1,000-kilometer
(621 mi) Michinoku Coastal Trail,
which stretches from Aomori Prefecture
to Fukushima Prefecture.
Fukushima was the site
of a nuclear disaster that followed
the terrible earthquake and tsunami
in March of 2011.
Thousands lost their loved ones,
homes, their livelihood.
The devastation
was felt throughout the country.
One hundred and fifty-five congregations
were in the area affected by the tsunami.
Despite the difficult conditions,
277 elders moved in
to comfort and assist the congregations.
Our Japanese brothers and sisters
wanted to comfort others
and were eager to resume
organized preaching.
Within a month,
publishers were sharing
the Bible’s message of hope
with their neighbors.
As they went out,
they contacted many inactive ones
who have since resumed associating
with the congregation.
Twelve years later,
Jehovah’s people continue searching
for sheeplike ones.
Let’s visit three congregations
in the Sanriku area.
These congregations,
each with fewer than 60 publishers,
still deliver a mighty shout of praise.
The tsunami and resulting disaster
had a big effect on those in the territory.
Many began to realize
that spiritual things are more important
than what we can see.
Our brothers have done their best
to fill the void that many are feeling
with the Bible’s message of hope.
Since the 2011 disaster,
20 Bible students
have dedicated themselves to Jehovah
and have gotten baptized.
The Kamaishi, Ofunato,
and Rikuzentakata congregations
send their Christian love and affection.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.